when you think about the brain you know
it's it's sort of a difficult thing to
understand because if I were to ask you
right now how does the heart work you
would instantly tell me it's a pump you
know it pumps blood and if I were to ask
how your lungs work you would say it
exchanges oxygen for carbon dioxide
that's easy but if I were to ask you how
the brain works it's a hard thing to
understand because you can't just look
at a brain and understand what it is
it's not a mechanical object how to pump
it's not an airbag this is like if you
held it in your hand when it was dead
it's just a piece of fat and so to
understand how the brain works you have
to go inside a living brain because the
brain is not mechanical the brain is
electrical it's chemical your brain is
made out of 100 billion cells and these
cells are called neurons and these
neurons communicate with each other with
electricity and we're going to ease drop
in on a conversation between two cells
and we're going to listen to something
called a spike but we're not going to
record my brain or your brain or your
teachers brains we're going to use our
good friend the cockroach not just
because I think they're cool but because
they have brains very similar to ours
and so if I learn a little bit about how
their brains work we're going to learn a
lot about how our brains work so I'm
going to put them in some ice water here
and then yeah so what's happening right
now is that they're becoming
anesthetized because they're cold
blooded they become the temperature of
the water and they can't control it so
they just basically chillax all right
they're going to be they're not gonna be
able to feel anything and that may just
tell you a little bit about what we're
going to be doing we're gonna be doing a
scientific experiment to understand the
brain so this is the leg of a cockroach
and the cockroach has all these
beautiful hairs and pricklies all over
it underneath each one of those is a
cell and this cells in neuron and this
neuron is going to send information
about wind or vibrations if you try to
try to catch a cockroach it's hard
because they can feel you coming before
you even there they start running so
these cells are zipping up this
information up to the brain using those
little axons with electronic messages in
there so we're going to record by
sticking a pin right in there so we need
to take off the leg of a cockroach don't
worry they'll grow back then we're going
to put two pins in there one of the pins
if these are metal pins are going to
pick up this electronic message this
electric
just going by so we're now going to do
the surgery to see if you guys can see
this yeah it's gross alright so there we
go you guys can see his leg right there
so now I'm going to take this leg I'm
going to put it in this invention that
we came up with called the SpikerBox and
this replaces lots of expensive
equipment in a research lab so you guys
can do this in your own high schools or
in your own basements if it's me so
there could you guys see that
all right so I'm going to go ahead and
turn this on I'm going to plug it in to
me it's the most beautiful sound in the
world and this is what your brain is
doing right now you have 100 billion
cells making this these raindrop type
noises so let's go ahead take a look
what it looks like it's take pulled up
of the iPad on the screen I plugged my
iPad into here as well so remember we
said that that action cut looks like
look at the spike we're going to take a
look at what one of them looks like just
a brief second I'm going to tap here so
we can put sort of average
there we see it that's an action
potential you've got 100 billion cells
in your brain doing this right now
setting all this information back about
what you're seeing what you're hearing
so we also said this as a cell that's
going to be sort of a taking up
information about vibrations of the wind
what if you do an experiment we can
actually blow on this and here if we see
a change you guys going to be ready for
this if I blow on any time we'd be here
anything so just touch it with a little
pen here
there's actually the neural firing range
Isis took a while in neuroscience to
understand this this is called rate
coding which is that the harder you
press on something the more spikes there
are and that all that information is
coming up to your brain that's how you
perceive things so that's one way of
doing experiments with electricity the
other way is that your brain is not only
just reading or taking in electrical
impulses you're also sending out that's
how you move your muscles around so
let's see what happens if I've plugged
in something that's electric into the
cockroach leg here so I'm going to take
two pins I'm going to plug them onto the
cockroach I'm going to take the other
end I'm going to plug it into my iPod
it's my iPhone actually I don't know if
you guys know this but do you guys know
how your earbuds work in your ears you
have a battery in your phone your iPod
right it's sending electrical current
into these magnets in your earbuds which
shake back and forth you live to hear
things but that electric currents the
same currency that our brain uses so we
can send that directly to the cockroach
leg and hopefully if this works we can
actually see what happens when we play
music into the cockroach let's take a
look we turn it up there we go
so what's happening
so you see what's moving it's moving on
the base all those audio files out there
have awesome kickin car stereos know
that bass speakers are the biggest
speakers the biggest speakers are the
longest waves the longest ways has the
most current and the current is what's
causing these things to move so it's not
just speakers that are causing
electricity microphones also cause
electricity so I'm going to go ahead and
invite another person out on the stage
here to help me out with this so there
we go this is the first time this ever
happened in the history of mankind keep
me beatbox - a cockroach leg when you
guys go back to your high school think
about neuroscience and that you guys can
begin the neuro revolution so thank you
very much
you